Hello and welcome to this tutorial.
Now we have everything we have our frames that we're going to get from the video.
We have our neural network net the SS The neural network and we have our transform transformation.
So we are ready to do some object detection on a video.
This video is going to be the funny dog that before there is this video of this very cute dog bouncing
on the field on the grass there is curial in the video.
We're going to try to detect as well another human and some other humans behind.
Let's see if it's powerful enough to even detect the humans that are behind the yard.
Well we might figure it out in this Statoil.
And if not in this detail it's going to be the next one so let's do it.
Let's start by opening the video.
That's the first thing we need to do.
Then we're going to get all the frames of the video one by one.
We're going to apply the detect function on these frames with our SSD net and our transform transformation.
Then we'll get the processed images with this rectangle and then we'll reassemble the whole thing to
have the final video.
All right let's do this let's first open the video.
So we're going to create a new object that we're going to call reader and this object is going to be
created with Image IO image.
I always a great library to process videos.
There is another great library that could do the job that is Bill P L in capital letters.
We actually tried that but it turned out to be much more efficient with Image IO.
So we're going to open the video with Image IO and to do this we well first we get our image I O library
and then we're going to use to get this core reader function.
And inside this function what do we need to input.
Well of course it's the video end quote and the video is well the name of the video is funny dog Dutt
and for.
All right.
So that opens the video basically funny dog that and before we're going to watch the video again before
we get the final output then the next step is to get the frequence of the frames.
That is the FPL frequents.
FPL means frames per second and we just need to get this frequence because we're going to need it afterwards.
So let's call this frequence fix and introducing a new variable and to get it.
Well we can get it from our reader object from which we used to get underscore Meda underscored data
Barondess is nothing inside.
But then in square brackets here you have to specify in quotes.
US and that will just get you the FBI frequence that is the number of frames per second.
All right.
And now next step and you're going to understand now why we needed that frames per second frequents
the next step is to create and now put video that is going to be the final output with that same FBA
sequence.
And we're going to create that output video with Again image IO.
So we have to give it a different name we're going to call it writer and again and we're going to call
our image I O library.
And this time since we're not opening a video we are creating a new video where we're not going to use
a get rid of function.
We're going to use to get writer function that basically creates something like an object that will
contain a video.
And this something will add the sequence of frames you know we will append to process frames that is
the frames on which we apply to detect function.
So there we go get writer.
And then we need to put two arguments the first one is the name we want to give to this output video
and we're going to call it.
Well very simply outputs that and before this way I'll put that image for a second argument which is
actually the frequence how many frames per second do we want.
And so while the name of the argument is yes you have to specify it.
And this is equal to this.
FP is variable here that we got things to get made a data function from our reader object.
So FP as equals Appius are right.
So now we have everything we have.
All we need to start this for loop and process each of the images of the funny the video.
And so of course you understand that in each step of the loop we're going to work on a specific frame
of the video and on that frame we're going to apply the detect function to detect the objects in the
frame and print the rectangles.
All right.
So let's start this for loop for I.
So I will just correspond to the number of the image that is processed.
So you know I'm going to go from 0 to I told you there's going to be 68 fremd so I'm going to go from
zero to 68 or 67 something like that.
So for I and then frame of course we're iterating over the frames of the video.
That's why I'm taking frame that's just the name of the variable that will exactly correspond to each
of the frames of the video.
So I-frame in.
And then we can use and enumerate parenthesis reader that that will just iterate through all the frames
of the reader video.
The funny the video.
So for I-frame numerate reader.
Well what do we do.
We simply need to apply to detect method on this frame right here to have some objects detected by the
net which is or as is the neural network that we created associated to the right transformation to transform
object here to make sure that this frame can be accepted into this net.
All right.
So nothing more easy to do here.
We apply the detect function to our frame with our neural network net and with our transformation transform.
However there is just little trick here.
NET is actually an advanced structure.
Remember it's an object of the build as the class.
And in order to get this neural network that is expected by the Dodik function it's not only that the
22 input it's actually not that level that just to align with the way to build as is the function was
made but basically net that yvel represents our new network net from which we get the output y and therefore
the detections on each frame.
So perfect we detected the objects on our frame but remember that this detect function returns actually
the frame the processed frame with the detected object and therefore I'm going to introduce here a new
variable that will represent that process frame.
And there is actually no danger to call it again frame so I'm just overwriting the frame here.
But that's totally OK here.
The frame is the original frame with no detection made yet and this frame is the new frame.
After we apply the detect function with the detector rectangles.
All right.
So now the loop is now over.
What do we need to do.
Well each time we get a new process frame with the objects detected we need to append this frame to
our writer output video and that's exactly what we're going to do now to append a frame to our right
of video.
We simply need to take our writer object than dot and then we use append underscore data function to
which we need two input.
Of course what we want to append to the writer output video and that is of course this new preset frame
with the detected object.
Perfect.
So now the process for them is appended.
And now we can just add print I just to see during the detection which frame we reached.
All right.
That's just a practical thing to see the number of the process frame will be displayed during the detection.
And finally last line of code.
Well we just need to close the process that manages the creation of this video and to close it.
We just need to take our writer and then add that and then close parenthesis the close function that
will close the process and we'll get the output video in that same repertory.
That is our working directory folder.
All right so that's it.
We're ready to watch the final output.
So what do you thing do we do it in Statoil.
Well yeah let's do it let's do it right now so we simply need to select all the code and execute.
There we go.
No error just a warning that's OK.
That's just a warning for f MPEG library but it's OK.
And here we can see the number of the frame that is processed.
You can see that it's going actually pretty fast.
So we'll get the final output video.
Very quickly I told you there's about sixty eight frames to be processed on each frame.
Replying the direct function to the object.
Let's see what happens and we'll get quickly to the final result.
All right so it's about to end very very soon.
Yeah.
OK.
So it went from zero to 67 so there was indeed sixty eight frames to process that is to detect some
object in the video in a two seconds video.
OK.
So let's watch the final output.
But before that I just want to show you again the original video funny Doug before.
So let's watch this again.
BOING BOING BOING BOING BOING BOING.
All right the duck bouncing on the field.
And now let's see what our mole was able to do.
So there is this dog here a human here Carol here and some other humans here.
Let's see what this mole was able to detect.
Going to close that video.
I'm going to get my outputs and let's watch the result.
Ready.
And play all right amazing job Doug was detected the human was detected and I didn't have time to see
how well your role was detected but I think I saw some detections on this humans.
Let's watch this again.
That's an amazing job you can try to do that with open Sivi or some other models.
I'm not sure you get such a great result.
I actually tried it with open city and I definitely didn't get the same results.
There were rectangles everywhere.
So that didn't work.
But with this SSD model the detection is amazing the drug is perfectly well detected.
So now let's see let's see for the other detection.
So the human is also detected this human here but it's quite big in the video.
So of course it's detected.
The drug is well detected as well.
Let's see some other OK.
So the humans behind are hidden by the arms of course they're not yet detected but let's see what happens
next.
All right that's what I'm talking about here on this special frame.
This special frame is very interesting because not only we can see the humans behind detect it very
well detected it's actually detected this lady here and and also Kiril was detected but we lost the
detection on the dog.
And why is that.
It's because the dog merged with Curiel you see CULE has the upper body of Kiril but the lower body
of the dog and therefore the model things that one same person.
And that's why it detected the person.
So that's pretty funny.
And then if I move onto the next frame Well the detection of the real person is gone.
And we got back the detection of the dog.
That's a pretty funny thing that happened here.
OK.
And then all right we had some more dog and more Duguay.
So that's pretty cool isn't it.
The dog is well detected the humans will detect it and sometimes we get some other detections on other
humans that are much harder to detect.
So I hope you are convinced by the power of this as demurral you can actually try with the other ones
you'll see that it's a pretty great job that was done here by the SS The neural network in the next
tutorial.
I'll give you a little homework.
It will be to do some detection and some other video some very cool and really really beautiful video
of some horses running on some field and filmed by the drone.
I'd like you to try this because I like you to keep in mind that this model can not only detect common
things like humans and dogs but also many other objects like horses boats cars planes whatever.
I think between 30 to 40 objects so that will be a funny homework to do.
Not difficult.
But don't worry we'll get back to difficult things in module three with deep convolutional Ganns.
So I'll see you in the homework and module 3.
And until then enjoy can do revision.